Using Save
==========

1. Save options

    Invoking Save with no arguments or with the --help option will print
    a usage summary:

        Usage: save [OPTION]... COMMAND

        Check failover status or execute COMMAND with associated
        synchronization, archival, and/or validation actions

        Options (defaults in brackets):
            --after         perform after actions
            --archive       perform archival actions
            --before        perform before actions
            --cwd=PATH      set working directory for commands to PATH
            --down          bring node down
            --file          indicate argument is file instead of command
            --force         force actions even if file does not exist
            --give          give up IP address
            --help          help
            --shift         shift arguments one or more times
            --status        print current state
            --sync          perform synchronization actions
            --sync_cmd      execute command across all nodes
            --take          take IP address
            --timeout=SECS  set ssh connect timeout to SECS [2]
            --up            bring node up
            --validate      perform validation actions


2. Option notes

    2.1. Failover management

        2.1.1. Status

            The --status option displays the current failover state of
            the current node.  The state is one of active, passive,
            give, or take.  Additionally, the state will show whether
            the node has been marked as down.  For example, if:

                save --status

            results in:

                passive (down)

            this would indicate that the node is in a passive state
            and is down.

            Note that output represents the internal state maintained by
            Save and may not always correspond to the actual state of
            the network.  For example, when a node transitions to the
            Save active state, it will have the failover address
            locally and will have sent out a gratuitous ARP, but that
            ARP may take a few seconds to take effect within the network
            devices to which the node is attached.  A node will keep
            trying until it for sure has the address.
            
            To determine if failover address traffic is being routed to
            the current node, you may invoke tcpdump (or equivalent) on
            the corresponding network interface and then ping the node
            externally.  If the ping traffic shows up, traffic is being
            correctly routed.
            
        2.1.2. Give

            When executed on the active node, the --give option will
            attempt to yield the failover address to the passive node.
            A give on the passive node has no effect.  Give takes no
            additional arguments:

                save --give
            
            Note that a give can sometimes fail depending on the
            frequency at which various monitors run since a peer monitor
            may run just after the passive node takes over but just
            before it has acquired the failover address.  This scenario
            can be avoided by using the Mon "alertafter" option to allow
            more than one failure, which should give the passive node
            enough time to complete the transition.
            
        2.1.3. Take

            When executed on the passive node, the --give option will
            attempt to take over the failover address from the active
            node.  A take on the active node has no effect.  Take takes
            no additional arguments:

                save --take

            Note that a take can sometimes fail depending on the
            frequency at which various monitors run since a peer monitor
            may run just after the passive node takes over but just
            before it has acquired the failover address.  This scenario
            can be avoided by using the Mon "alertafter" option to allow
            more than one failure, which should give the passive node
            enough time to complete the transition.

        2.1.4. Down

            The --down option marks an up node as down.  It has no
            effect on a down node.  A down node will not send
            heartbeats when active and will not attempt to take over the
            failover address under any condition when passive.  When
            active and down, a node will naturally transition to the
            passive state through a heartbeat failure condition on the
            passive node.  Down takes no additional arguments:

                save --down

        2.1.5. Up

            The --up option marks a down node as up.  It has no effect
            on an up node.  A node that becomes up will resume normal
            behavior.  Up takes no additional arguments:

                save --up

    2.2. Action management

        The default usage model of Save is to prepend "save" to any
        command and Save will perform the configured actions for any
        files on the command line for which actions have been specified.
        For example:

            save vi /dir/file

        would check to see if any actions have been specified for
        /dir/file or its parent directory /dir.  If "before" actions
        have been specified, they will be executed before vi is invoked.
        Otherwise, vi will be invoked on /dir/file as normal.  After vi
        exits, Save will check to see if /dir/file has been modified.
        If so, Save will perform any "after" actions specified.  This
        may include checking the syntax of /dir/file via validation
        actions, synchronizing /dir/file to a peer host via
        synchronization actions, and/or archiving a copy of /dir/file
        via archival actions.

        2.2.1. Action filters

            By default, Save takes all actions associated with a given
            file.  If deisred, the set of actions defined for a file can
            be filtered so that only a specific subset is taken.

            2.2.1.1. Before

                The --before option enables execution of actions
                defined in the "before" elements of the Save
                configuration file.

            2.2.1.2. After

                The --after option enables execution of actions
                defined in the "after" elements of the Save
                configuration file.

            2.2.1.3. Archival

                The --archive option enables the execution of the
                before or after actions defined for a file that appear
                in the "archive" element of the Save configuration file.

            2.2.1.4. Synchronization

                The --sync option enables the execution of the before
                or after actions defined for a file that appear in the
                "sync" element of the Save configuration file.

            2.2.1.5. Validation

                The --validate option enables the execution of the
                before or after actions defined for a file that appear
                in the "validate" element of the Save configuration
                file.

        2.2.2. Explicit actions

            2.2.2.1. Files

                The --file option indicates that only files are given as
                arguments (i.e. no command is given).  It also indicates
                that file modification times should not be taken into
                account.  This option is useful for embedding Save
                actions within external programs that modify files of
                interest.  For example:

                    save --file /dir/file

                could be embedded within a script to perform all the
                usual actions associated with /dir/file.

            2.2.2.2. Forced actions

                The --force option indicates that actions should be
                forced even if a file does not exist.  This option is
                useful during explicit synchronizations when a file may
                have been removed by an external program and the removal
                of the file needs to be synchronized across peers.
                For example:
                
                    save --sync --file --force /dir/file

                would guarantee that the creation, modification, and/or
                removal of /dir/file will be synchronized across peers
                (assuming an appropriate synchronization action for
                /dir/file or /dir has been defined in the Save
                configuration).

    2.3. Other options

        2.3.1. Synchronized commands

            Commands may be executed across all peers using the
            --sync_cmd option.  For example:

                save --sync_cmd ls -l

            would execute the ls command on the current host and all
            peers.  Note that the current working directory will be
            identical across all hosts.  Synchronized commands do not
            invoke actions that have been defined for files.

        2.3.2. Argument shifting

            Save arguments can be shifted one or more times using the
            --shift option.  This option is mainly of use in SSH forced
            commands when given $SSH_ORIGINAL_COMMAND.  For example:

                save --file --shift --shift $SSH_ORIGINAL_COMMAND

            when used in a forced command would invoke Save with the
            first two arguments removed and comand processing disabled
            (using --file).  The end result is allowing specified Save
            actions to run, but not allowing the execution of
            arbitrary commands.

        2.3.3. Timeouts

            Save uses SSH to contact peer hosts.  The --timeout=SECS
            option can be used to set the SSH connection timeout to SECS
            seconds.

    2.4. Internal options

        These options are used by Save itself and are not normally
        needed by users unless they wish to modify/extend Save's core
        functionality.

        2.4.1. Current working directory

            The --cwd=PATH option sets the working directory on all
            peers to PATH.  This option is used automatically when
            synchronized commands are executed via the --sync_cmd
            option.

        2.4.2. Remote command

            The --remote option indicates that Save has been executed
            via a remote command so should not take further actions on
            any other peers.  This option is used automatically whenever
            a command is issued on any peer.

